Beautiful, and now user takes action.
We're almost there, user actions.
You've done incredibly,
people, user actions.
User comes in and types.
We have a handler ready to handle it.
They're gonna type.
We're not gonna dwell on
this one like last time.
They're gonna type, I would say hooray,
but hello hooray is, what do we say?
Frontend Masters maybe?
Sorry.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah, all right.
They're gonna type FM,
Frontend Masters, yay.
We should probably do UIHP.
No, no, no, that's even.
Okay, we'd do Frontend Masters,
that's lovely.
Frontend Masters, they're gonna
write FM into the input field.
That is going to trigger
our handle function to run,
set our FM as a value on that input node,
that input object in C++.
The event is also going to be fully
described in an object auto inserted
into that handle function that
is auto executed by JavaScript.
I note here I have not taken my
updateDOM function off the call stack.
So let's get that cleared
off from earlier.
And, I almost feel,
I can't believe we are almost there.
Honestly, I'm feeling I'm
missing something here.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I guess we've still gotta do diffing
and whatever.
So, Ian, do you mind helping me out with
what's happening to our callback queue,
our call stack, as this handle
function gets added to the queue?
>> Okay, so the user put in the input FM,
>> Which added it to the callback queue.
>> Beautiful.
>> And then we check to see if the call
stack is empty, so
we can add that callback over there.
>> Beautiful.
>> And it is, so it's going to
be added to the call stack and
then begin execution of the handler.
>> Beautiful, brand new execution context.
Don't worry, we'll get to it.
There it is, handle.
And, yeah,
this is a very small one, right?
So tell me what's gonna happen in it.
>> Yeah,
since it was executed by an event handler.
>> It's not a very, very small one, is it?
Because we also, right, right,
right, we don't know which
element is going to land on per se in
terms of our accessor labels in JavaScript.
So we don't wanna be restricted.
So we allow it to be generic and
we use the event object that's also
auto inserted into it to identify
where this input was happening.
Get a link to that DOM element, such
that we can then go and grab its value.
I mean, we could work out an index process
to get exactly which of the elems it's in.
And then inside of here do,
name is gonna be elem's position,
some sort of index to figure
out which elem it was.
And then get the value to
use our getter or the value.
But this in the end is probably a better
way or a nice way to do it here.
And with that in mind, yes, what's our,
again, event object also auto inserted.
There it is.
And keep me going in terms of my.
Yeah, sorry just-
>> So we're reassigning the global
variable name to the-
>> Beautiful.
>> We're accessing the event object.
>> Well, so let's just put that
though into our local memory.
We have a parameter that is
going to be auto assigned.
Our auto inserted object,
the event object as you rightly say.
We're going to be most interested in its
target property, which is, go ahead.
>> The target property
is an accessor object-
>> Beautiful.
>> For
the element that the user interacted with.
>> Yeah, beautiful
>> And we are going to be accessing
the value of that-
>> Yeah, brilliant.
>> Through the getter method value.
>> Fantastic, and that is a link,
as you say, to the input element.
And we are going to, exactly as you say,
access via our placeholder parameter
e the target of the user's action,
which the user action event object
captures in its target property,
which is a linked accessor
object to the input DOM element.
And we're going to use the getter, exactly
as you said, of value to get its entered
value via user's submission so to speak,
which is FM for Frontend Masters,
although I'm also realized it
reminds me of Football Manager.
One of my favorite games
as I was growing up.
And that is gonna be assigned
into as a JavaScript
string into the global variable,
as you said, Ian, of what?
>> Name.
>> Name, beautiful.
There it is, that's our new data.
That's our new data from which
we're going to run our one simple
function that produces our
JavaScript representation.
It's almost an interstitial as
an intermediate step before that all
gets converted into
actual C++ DOM elements.
And so we get handle off the call stack.
Doesn't that pink and green look great?
[LAUGH] I don't even know what it's
saying, but I know it looks nice.
Okay, and so handle was, of course,
out of the callback queue.
As always, I forget to remove
from the callback queue,
when we added it to the call stack.
Okay, data's changed.
We're running updateDOM
every 15 milliseconds.
In a more mature design,
we would have upon in handle
the name wanting to be changed.
We'd have used an update name hook or
a data state hook that would have ensured
when we update our data,
we also then triggered updateDOM to run.
But for our simplicity here,
it's just gonna run again.
And so, updateDOM, Alexa talk me
through what's gonna happen here.
>> updateDOM comes back
into the callback queue.
>> Into the callback queue.
>> The event loop checks if our global
code is done running, which it is.
And if the call stack is empty,
which it is.
>> Absolutely, and add update.
>> Yes,
updateDOM gets added to the call stack.
JavaScript will invoke it for us.
>> And we are going to create a brand new,
together-
>> Execution context.
>> You're so lovely, people.
It just really keeps me going.
And the thread of
execution weaves into it.
And we're at, I don't know,
15 milliseconds or whatever.
And now, have I missed anything here?
No, right?
And now we hit our conditional.
Elems, is it undefined anymore, Alexa?
>> No.
>> It is absolutely not undefined.
So we hit our else.
And our else is going to, the reason
it's not undefined anymore is we've got
a bunch of access to objects to our
now readily created DOM elements.
Meaning we ain't gonna be throwing
them out from scratch anymore.
Even though for our vDOM, for
our purposes of reasoning,
it's really lovely that we're gonna be
able to produce a brand new description in
full from a one-to-one relationship in
our createVDOM function of what the page
should show without us having
to work out and reason.
Now, if you're doing this in
a React type environment,
we would use a function call to create
all of those DOM elements one by one.
But we'd still be from scratch
reasoning from data to what is
to be displayed in
a one-to-one relationship.
Same thing here, but under the hood
we're gonna need to do a better job
of not throwing out our DOM
elements from scratch, but
instead making incisive changes.
And so into our else we go where
we're gonna do some trickery with
our arrays here.
Okay, Alexa,
can you try verbalizing this for me?
>> Yes, so we're gonna reassign
our prev DOM or previous DOM.
>> Previous vDOM?
>> Yeah-
>> I think it's a bit tricky.
Previous virtual DOM, virtual DOM.
>> To be a new array into which we
spread out all of the sub arrays that
are currently in our current vDOM.
>> Let's give a hand to Alexa for
that one, that's really nice.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> It's just these are not when a lot of
time when I verbalize
few many times myself.
So, [SOUND] what Alexa say, okay.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So we're gonna create previous vDOM
a new array and we are going to
spread out the sub elements.
I'm just literally copying what Alexa
said, of vDOM into that new array.
Now, so that I don't need to
recopy all that out and I guess so
that I could show vDOM the new one down
here and the previous one up here.
I'm going to just, but I'm also,
I think I'm gonna show us
the the outer array being redone.
>> That's quite nice, isn't it, right?
So I'm going to have previous vDOM be
a new array into which I've spread zero,
one, two, or not, yeah,
the previous elements in vDOM.
And now vDOM, I'm going to,
now technically,
vDOM is still pointing to the previous
array with holding those three sub-arrays.
But we know that we're about
to reassign it to the output
of running createVDOM with our new data.
So let's hold on redrawing that and
instead just do our next line.
Alexa, vDOM is gonna be reassigned,
well, take it away.
>> Yes, so
we're gonna reassign vDOM to the evaluated
result of invoking createVDOM.
>> Create vDOM,
that will go in the call stack.
And we can just see its output here
with all of the data run through it,
a big old new array and
now we're gonna fill out its data.
We know we're inside createVDOM here.
But just cuz it's gonna be
returned straight out into vDOM,
we might as well just put
it straight here in global.
And so what is our new vDOM?
I'm actually honestly feeling anticipation
as we get to this final, I'm like.
Okay, what are we gonna
fill this array in with?
>> So the first subarray
will have the string input.
>> Perfect.
>> The string FM for Frontend Masters-
>> Exactly.
>> And then the function definition
we've stored under the label handle.
>> Perfect, under handle,
so new reference to it.
And then our next one?
>> Will be the string div, and
then the string Hello, FM!
>> Beautiful, and the last one?
>> Will again be the string div and
then the string Great job.
>> Beautiful, and there they are.
Okay, done, and I can already see I'm
gonna need to do some comparisons here.
But I'm not gonna need to throw out
my entire real C++ DOM elements.